= EngineTune

Interested in determining how well your engine will run under certain meteorological and geological conditions?

This is the gem for you! (And I am sure there are a lot of you out there.)

EngineTune returns the following calculations when supplied with altitude, altimeter (barometric pressure), temperature and dew point:

* AE Relative Horsepower
* Dyno Correction Factor
* Air Density
* Density Altitude
* ICAO Relative Air Density
* Virtual Temperature
* Absolute Air Pressure
* Vapor Pressure
* Relative Humidity

The calculations in this gem are modeled after  Richard Shelquist's Engine Tuner's Calculator, but have been re-factored to be more ruby-like. I urge you to read his technical articles on Density Altitude and Corrected Horsepower for detailed explanations of these concepts.

http://wahiduddin.net/calc/calc_hp_dp.htm

== Standard Usage

<i>Note that all observations must be supplied using the metric system of measurement.</i>

  observations = Hash.new
  observations[:temperature] = 32.0 # Celsius
  observations[:dew_point] = 22.0 # Celsius
  observations[:altitude] = 149.0 # Meters
  observations[:altimeter] = 1013.4 # Millibars

  calculations = EngineTune.calculate(observations)

  calculations.relative_horsepower
    #=> 96.2 (as percentage)

  calculations.density_altitude
    #=> 876 (as meters)


Calculations are returned in metric units, but if you prefer your calculations using the English system of measurement, do this:

  calculations.metric = false

  calculations.density_altitude
    #=> 2874 (as feet)

And if you forget what system of measurement your calculations object is using, just ask it:

  calculations.metric = false

  calculations.metric?
    #=> false

  calculations.english?
    #=> true

== The Calculator

You can also bypass the calculations object and directly use the calculator:

  temperature = 32.0 # Celsius
  dew_point = 22.0 # Celsius
  altitude = 149.0 # Meters
  altimeter = 1013.4 # Millibars

  EngineTune::Calculator.relative_horsepower(altimeter, altitude, dew_point, temperature)
    #=> 96.2 (as percentage)

Convenience methods to convert between metric and English units are provided as well:

  EngineTune::Calculator.meters_to_feet 1054
    #=> 3458.0052546

  EngineTune::Calculator.inches_to_millibars 1223
    #=> 41415.3694298

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Guts & Bolts LLC. See LICENSE for details.